---
layout: post
title: "#26 Finance"
date: 2017-11-18
---

In the age of capitalism, capitalists run the world. Nation-states weaken, while nation-corporates thrive.

Finance is essential for survival, yet we don't teach it in schools.

# Time Value of Money

Time Value of Money, the idea that money available now is worth more than the same amount available in the future because of its potential earning capacity, has amazed me.

I still hold the Business Finance course I took while on exchange program in Australia as the most eye-opening learning experience in my entire college year.

# Personal Finance

Unless you're born a silver spoon in your mouth, you'd have to get your shit together before looking for investment opportunities. Far too many people start investing in trendy assets without having a cash buffer.

Needless to say, it wouldn't end well.

Over this past year I've gained (more) control of my personal finance. [The Richest Man in Babylon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0451205367/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0451205367&linkCode=as2&tag=tongwr-20&linkId=219cc853a37bff3760e995ff61ee2b97) was my guide.

It teaches me the key to financial success is not mathematical, but behavioral. You can learn time value of money all you want, but if you have no way to implement it, then it doesn't mean anything.

This book gives practical tips that 6-year-olds can follow.

# Cost Accounting

Many people think [accounting is useless](https://tongwr.com/2017/03/18/accounting.html). But it's crucial. Especially a subset of accounting called cost accounting.

When you do business you make some money and you pay some money to others.

Profit = (Money You Make) - (Money You Pay)

That's for each product or business unit.

So whenever you share resources across products or business units, there's no way to know which consume how much resources unless you do proper cost accounting.

Unless you know what costs how much, you might go bankrupt by doubling down on loss-making products.